## CHANGELOG
- No real versioning, just a list of changes for first and second iteration.
- For clarity, let's call it versions 1 and 2. 

### Version 1
- Added the agents package with the following agents:
  - BaseAgent: Base class. Contains the main methods for generating content and communicating with the openai api.
  - ExplanationAgent: Uses data gathered so far by the fedex-generator, generate a paragraph-long natural language explanation to the user action.
  - CodeInstructorAgent: Based on the explanation from above agent and the data, this agent generates self-sufficient coding instructions for the coding agent.
  - MatplotlibCodeAgent: Based solely on the code-instructions generated by the CodeInstructorAgent, this agent generates the python/matplotlib code that will be used to generate the visualizations.

- Called the agents in the BasicMeasure.py->calc_influence function, replacing the existing code for visualizations.
- The visualization list of tasks where handled manually and synchronously from calc_influence function.
- Only after one visualization(per K) is finished, the next agent could start working. It got me a working time of 40-50 seconds for each agent(!).

### Version 2
- Added the MatplotlibRefineAgent: Takes the generated code by the MatplotlibCodeAgent and refines it to make it more visually appealing and debug code problems.
- Moved the agents code to the new 'AgentsManager' class, which managed the entire pipeline internally, instead of cluttering the BasicMeasure.py file.
- Used the asyncio library and the openai AsyncClient client to run the agents in parallel for each k while maintaining sequential process inside each pipeline,
- Added an agent to combine all codes for one, and run them together. Both last changes **drastically** improved the running time - about 46-50 seconds for K=4 visualizations.
- Created the AgentsManager class to manage the agents pipeline internally, thus making the code more readable and maintainable, leaving only the AgentsManager and a single function call in the BasicMeasure.py file.